Speed Reader App

Once user loads app, they will land in a screen where they can paste some text in the text input.  Once the 'Start Reading' button is clicked, the app is going to start reading the input text and show one word at a time in the transparent box.  The user is able to pause or resume the reading at any time.  Also, the progress of the reading is controllable with a slider, which takes the reader backward or forward.  There are also sliders to control the font size of the text and the reading speed.

The logic of the app is as follows: firstly when the app is loaded, text is placed in the text input and, when the 'Start Reading' button is clicked, the text will turn into an array of words.  The code will get the number of words in the array.  If the number of words is greater than 1, the text will read and the cotrols will show.  Otherwise, if the text is less than one word, an error message 'Please paste text in the box' will show.

To get the words to show up one at a time, we use the index of each element in the array.  A counter, which is initiated at 0, has been created so that every time a word shows, we're showing the word at index counter.  At the same time, the min and max values of the Progress slider are set to 0 for the min and length - 1 for the max.
Once the counter is initiated to 0 and the Progress slider's min and max values are established, the word of index counter will show.  The slider value is set to the value of the counter so that at the start the slider's progress is 0% and shows counter index position 0, which is the first word of the text. Next the counter is increased by one.  If this is not the last word, the word of the next counter index will show and the loop continues where the slider's Progress value is updated to match the counter, and the counter is increased by one.  Otherwise, if it is the last word, the reading will stop and the 'New' button will appear to create a new reading.

If the 'Pause' button is clicked, the reading will stop, the 'Pause' button will hide, and the 'Resume' button will show.  If the 'Resume' button is clicked, reading will resume, the 'Pause' button will show, and the 'Resume' button will hide.  If the 'New' button is clicked, the app will reload.

If the slider 'Font Size' is utilised, the slider will refresh to a new value and the text font size will change to the new value.  If the slider 'Reading Speed' is utilised, the slider will refresh to a new value and the setInterval function will change frequency using the new value.  If the slider 'Progress' is utilised, the slider will refresh to a new value, the counter will be set to the new value,  the progress percentage will be calculated using the counter value divided by the number of words - 1 and multiplied by 100 to get a percentage, and, finally, the word of the index Counter will show.